----------------------- REVIEW 1 ---------------------
PAPER: 63
TITLE: REGULAR-T1: Knowledge-Based Interoperability for Mathematical Software Systems
AUTHORS: Michael Kohlhase, Dennis Müller, Markus Pfeiffer, Florian Rabe, Nicolas M. Thiéry, Victor Vasilyev and Tom Wiesing

Overall evaluation: 0 (borderline paper)

----------- Overall evaluation -----------
This paper describes progress so far on the OpenDreamKit Project.  The project aims at building a virtual research environment which can draw on multiple pieces of mathematical software.  The present paper focusses on a case study involving just three: Sage, GAP and Singular.  The case study motivates the benefit for such an environment and the progress suggests it is possible.  

The project and paper is certainly interesting.  I have some specific critics below but the main issue is that it falls outside of the scope of MACIS Track 1.  The paper is about the interoperability of systems, not the algorithms within those systems that are the topic of the track.  The paper does not fit any of the other three MACIS tracks either, and yet is clearly of interest to the MACIS community.  So I would be minded to make an exception.


The key case study is of a SageMath user who wants to use GAP to calculate the orbit of some polynomials under a permutation group and then Singular to calculate their Groebner Basis.  This is sensible because the GAP and Singular excel at those tasks.  However I find the case study unsatisfying for multiple reasons:

1.  What is the point of SageMath in the Case Study?  The only role it plays is as the "base" for Jane and yet if I understand your point it is that no one system should be the base.  For the case study to really make sense I would suggest that SageMath should contribute something to the calculations.

2.  With three systems there is no saving from the MitM approach.  Actually it costs more.  E.g. building two direct links:
Sage<->GAP and Sage<->Singular
would be cheaper that the 3 links you describe:
Sage<->MinM and GAP<->MitM and Singular<->MitM
The MitM approach only starts to pay dividends if either the user sits in the middle or there are even more systems talking to each other

3.  You give specific polynomials in the example but you never give the specific orbit from GAP or the specific Groebner Basis.  So what is the point of giving the polynomials?

I do think this project is worthwhile and that a case study could display that worth, but I'm not sure this one does the job.


Some other points:

- I think the analogy star-shaped is confusing.  What you really mean is asterix-shaped!

- P2P is undefined acronym.

- You mention that OpenDreamKit involves a dozen systems - what are the other 9?  This would really help motivate your approach.

- Could you describe who decides what the Maths in the Middle is?  You make the good point that it should not be a single system (e.g. Sage) but then how are decisions made?

- There a few over-running lines (Latex bad boxes) to deal with

- The benefits of gradual typing from Sage moving to Python 3 deserve more comments.

- Could the authors clarify in one place which aspects of the tools they describe are already available to users.  The MitM ontology is described as a shared resource but shared where? I assume the gitlab page used for some of the references but it would be nice if this was stated clearly.



The paper is very well written in terms of English.  I have only a handful of minor suggestions:
p1 Title: The author list should be separated by commas.
p1 Abstract: Instead of "(Maths-in-the-Middle, MitM)" write "(Maths-in-the-Middle, or MitM)"
p10 insert "we" as the second work od third paragraph of Section 4.2
p13 Acknowledgements: WP6 is used without stating what it is a Work Package of.
p13: The reference style is not standard LNCS.  E.g. full author lists are omitted and replaced with et al.  Springer would not allow this (and I also think it is bad form).


----------------------- REVIEW 2 ---------------------
PAPER: 63
TITLE: REGULAR-T1: Knowledge-Based Interoperability for Mathematical Software Systems
AUTHORS: Michael Kohlhase, Dennis Müller, Markus Pfeiffer, Florian Rabe, Nicolas M. Thiéry, Victor Vasilyev and Tom Wiesing

Overall evaluation: 1 (weak accept)

----------- Overall evaluation -----------
The paper focuses on the OpenDreamKit project for building and maintaining a  virtual research
environment (VRE) for mathematics. The main contribution of the paper comes with its case study in group and ring computations, by integrating 3 computer algebra systems - GAP, SageMath and Singular. 
The paper's presentation and content is a combination of theoretical/formal considerations, implementation and engineering efforts. 

Overall, the paper is interesting but I could not figure out what is novel. I might be wrong, but I had the impression that Section 4 was done already in previous work, while the new part in the paper is Section 5 that is kept low, without much details on the case study and its result.

